what's up guys today we're doing
something brand new on our channel
learning with books yeah so this is not
just a list of grammar and vocabulary
books these are real life books that
natives actually read and they can help
you in developing practical skills like
grit confidence and good habits that
will help you with your English but also
in being a better human being and
achieving anything you want to achieve
in life plus if you do read them in
English you can develop some advanced
vocabulary now we're not going to be
covering strategies for reading in
English in this lesson but if you would
like us to make a lesson on this then
let us know by giving us a like it down
below and if you're new here we are
constantly helping you to take your
English to the next level like this so
if you want to learn real-life English
with TV series movies and even books
just hit that subscribe button and the
bellmen below so you don't miss any of
our new lessons now let's jump into this
list of 6 incredible books for your
English and your life alright so the
first book that I have for you on this
list is the seven Habits of Highly
Effective People now this is definitely
one of my top books ever and I really
think it should be required in high
schools all around the world because if
it were we would have a generation that
would make such a bigger impact that
would get along so much better now if
you want to be more successful at
anything you should really consider
reading this book it will help you
develop some essential skills that will
help you to be more effective as a
person now what does this mean exactly
this means that you will be able to
achieve more in a more productive way
now it will also help you in building
different relationships in business of
course but also with your
girlfriend/boyfriend wife or husband and
with your children if you have them or
anyone else in your family now the seven
Habits of Highly Effective People by
Stephen Covey
is packed full of advice that will help
you a ton in different areas of your
life I want to take a look at just a
couple of these that will help you a lot
with your English but then I really hope
that you'll go out and pick up this book
so one of the first habits that Stephen
Covey talks about in this book is
beginning with the
in mind now Covey actually begins a
section in the book by asking us to
envision our own funeral he asks us
who's there and what did they say about
us and ultimately the purpose of this is
for us to get a vision of what we want
to accomplish in this life who do we
want to make an impact on now as an
English Learner this can be extremely
powerful as well as an exercise to think
about what exactly will it be like when
you're fluent what are you doing who are
you speaking to what are you using the
language for and when you can kind of
have this vision in mind it will really
help power you through all of those hard
nights studying or the courage that you
need to go and have a conversation with
someone in another language and really
the more clear that you can make this
vision the more powerful that it will be
exactly who are you speaking to what are
you using your English for doing this
should help you to actually make the
right choices today to get there and
really what this habit is about is not
just letting life happen to you but
actually designing how you want your
life to be alright and then another
habit from this book that I think really
applies to you as an English Learner is
to seek to understand before being
understood now this is really crucial in
your own language but if you are
learning another language it becomes
even more important now what this one is
about is that normally we don't really
listen to people we're in a conversation
with another person they're talking and
we're priority thinking or head how are
we going to respond to what they're
saying we're not really listening to
what they're saying as human beings we
love speaking in fact think about it for
English learners almost everyone's goal
is to become a great fluent English
speaker I very rarely hear any English
learners say that they want to be a
great English listener however the
listening part is so important because
if you don't really understand people
and I mean beyond just the words that
they're saying if you don't really
empathize with them really put yourself
in their shoes then it's unlikely that
that relationship is going to go very
far and this is even more important when
that person is from a different culture
from you because it can be so easy to
judge someone when you don't really
understand where they're coming from now
I would imagine that your big goal with
English is to be able to communicate
using the language right but
communication is a two-way street and
there's a really great quote that says
that you have two ears and one mouth use
them proportionally this means that you
should listen twice as much as you speak
probably really you can think of some of
the people that you feel like you
connect the most to some of the people
that you've met in your life that really
you felt like I understood you the best
and it probably was because they were
really good at really listening to you
so if you only choose one of these books
on this list to actually go and read I
really hope it's this one you will be a
better english learner for it but more
importantly you'll be a better person
all right so the first book that we
looked at was the seven Habits of Highly
Effective People now how do you actually
even build a good habit or break a bad
one well journalist Charles Duhigg and
got really curious about all these
questions and dug into all the science
of it bringing us a book that brings us
some down to earth stories that help us
learn all about how we can replace our
bad habits with really good ones just to
start out with an example one of the
stories that I still remember is that he
tells us about a man who lost a lot of
weight by creating a running habit what
was his secret he actually ate a piece
of chocolate after every run but more on
that in just a little bit so first off
if you want to learn anything it's
really important that you are able to
develop habits that support it because
when you do this it becomes effortless
this is why I used to hold all of my
students accountable to creating fun
everyday habits in English and with the
ones that actually succeeded in doing
this I noticed huge differences in their
comprehension and English fluency so
just to give you a taste of this book
let's look at how habits actually work
now a Duhigg tells us that habits have
three parts the first part is the cue
now a cue is something that causes
another thing to start happening so
let's take for example running again if
you want to develop a new running habit
you might create a cue by leaving your
shoes right by your bed so as soon as
you wake up in the morning you would see
your shoes and you would know it's time
to go running now for your English you
might want to try something like pairing
your studying with your morning coffee
so I have my coffee in the morning and
automatically I
it's time to study English alright so
the next part of the habit is the
routine this is really the bulk of the
habit so for running it would probably
be doing the warm-up exercises the
actual run and then the stretching
afterwards and for your English maybe
it's actually studying some grammar
recording yourself and listening to it
or doing some writing exercises now the
last part of the habit is the reward and
remember I told you about that man at
the beginning who use chocolate to
motivate himself to run well that was
his reward but eventually you didn't
need the chocolate he just felt so good
after running getting a runner's high
that that was a reward in itself in most
of time when we think about habits we
only think about the behavior right we
think about like eating the donut or
going for an exercise exercise and going
for a run right but this Q and this
reward are kind of the keys to unlocking
habits and to shaping them and remaking
them and so if you know this as an
individual it's enormously powerful now
for your English you could totally do
the same thing you could have a treat
after you've done some really hard
studying or taking really good notes
watching this video but you could also
use for example watching an episode of
friends or a funny Ellen video or
writing a friend on whatsapp and in
English for a few minutes to reward
yourself for having done something more
difficult in the language so the power
habit is a really great read if you want
to upgrade your learnings from any of
these other books because you'll just
make them to have it so the next book I
have for you is called a mind for
numbers now don't be deceived by the
title of this book it's another really
great fundamental read which will help
you with so many other things now while
it actually takes the point of view of
learning math and science which for the
author Barbara Oakley was a really huge
struggle even though she eventually got
her PhD in engineering it actually
teaches us the skills that we need to be
able to learn anything more effectively
now for me one of the most impactful
things that I learned with this book is
that we usually think of learning just
as studying that time when we really
have our head down in the book and we're
trying to memorize really difficult
concepts and in English for sure this
for you would be when you have to
memorize Graham
rules or vocabulary now while this is
important for part of the brain what is
called the focus brain to actually be
spending that time really memorizing
which Oakley actually shows us how to do
better this is just half of the equation
so the other half of the learning
process is the diffuse brain and this is
actually how our brain makes the
connections when we're not studying and
we can actually use the difference brain
in an effective way to make information
stick so the best thing to do when
you're really stuck and frustrated on a
problem is not to keep focusing on it
you actually need to get in a very
different mode of thinking and that's
what that's that's what's represented
here and so what this means practically
for you is you're sitting there you're
working hey get out go for a run go down
and have a go take a shower if you need
to or do something that really gets your
mind totally off it because when you're
in this mode as long as your attention
is focused on that problem you're still
in this mode you can't get to this way
of solving things so while it is
important to actually have that time
where we're really studying hard if we
can then activate the diffuse brain
doing something like taking a nap or
playing sports it is going to stay with
us much longer this is why if you study
at night sometimes it can be good then
when you sleep you'll wake up with the
information much more locked down in
your brain now Oakley gives us a really
great example of this with Thomas Edison
who is famous for inventing the light
bulb what he would do is he would be in
a session where he was thinking really
hard trying to discover something and
what he would do is he would sit down in
his chair with something in his hand and
take a nap now right is that a sin that
was falling asleep what he had in his
hand would drop in the floor and it
would suddenly wake him up and what he
found often is that suddenly he would
have a discovery that he wasn't
realizing before so he would kind of use
this to activate the diffuse brain now
this concept is really just the tip of
the iceberg so if you read a mind for
numbers this is definitely going to help
you a lot with learning English and also
for learning any
else you want hey so I highly recommend
you go and follow us over on Instagram
because every week we are doing fun
reading exercises with some incredible
books like Harry Potter The Hunger Games
The Hobbit and so much more
so for some more fun reading with your
favorite books go and check us out over
on Instagram so the next one is called
grit by Angela Duckworth now this one
made a really huge impact on me when I
read it in fact it should be a required
reading for any parent out there as
Greece is the number one characteristic
that you can cultivate in your children
but even if you're not a child you can
cultivate grit now what is grit I'm
saying this word a lot right now
Duckworth uncovered that grit is the
number one characteristic shared by
successful people whether they are
soldiers musicians athletes or students
now grit is a combination of passion and
perseverance
now passion is the deep desire to master
whatever skill it is that you're
learning and it's not really the
fireworks it's not that excitement that
you get about something new its enduring
maybe you already know what perseverance
is perseverance is not giving off when
things get difficult now a really great
place to start is with the fantastic TED
talk that Angela Duckworth gave on grit
and then you can grow your grit by
reading the whole book grit is living
life like it's a marathon not a sprint
now if you can learn to be gritty with
your English learning you are guaranteed
to reach your goals
all right so the next one is daring
greatly up by Bernie brown and this one
is a bit different than any of the other
ones that we've seen so far now shame is
a normal motion we all feel it shame is
the fear that we won't be able to
connect with others because they will
judge something within us that tells
them that we're not worthy of that
connection with them now Brene brown
actually discovered that the way to beat
shame is through vulnerability however
in most societies we tend to think that
vulnerability is the same as weakness
now bernie brown shows us that this is
not so
Brunei shows us the vulnerability is
actually courage now the courageous
people the people who are willing to be
well they show up there in their arena
they are willing to fail I have a
vulnerability issue and you know and I
know that vulnerability is kind of the
core of shame and fear and our struggle
for worthiness but it appears that it's
also the birthplace of joy of creativity
of belonging of love now the reason that
this book is on this list is because
most English learners feel shame when it
comes to speaking English now for you as
a learner vulnerability is being able to
admit that you are not perfect that you
make mistakes and to embrace those
mistakes
it's that courage to be able to have a
conversation with someone and to sound a
bit like a child to feel that silliness
and be okay with it and to know also the
people who are critical are just scared
by your courage because they don't have
that same courage to go out there and to
do something that's really difficult
like speaking in another language
now Brene brown can say it's so much
better than I can
she actually has one of the most watched
TED talks of all time on these topics so
I highly recommend that you start out by
watching that and if you're interested
in these ideas then you're going to
really love at reading daring greatly so
a really great strategy to improve your
English with these books is to listen to
the audiobook while you are reading it
this way you not only improve your
reading and your vocabulary but you also
improve your English listening and it's
just so convenient I love listening the
audiobooks every day while I'm making my
breakfast now I've got a really great
opportunity for you to do this as well
you can sign up for audible with the
link down in the description below and
in addition to a free 30-day trial
you'll get two free books so just
imagine you could choose two of the
books from today's video and listen to
the audiobook absolutely free and even
if you decide not to continue your
subscription after the 30 days you get
to keep those two audiobooks yours
forever so what are you waiting for sign
up with that link down in the
description below so that you can start
learning with audible and improve your
listening with those two free audiobooks
all right so the last but not least
book on this list is the war of art by
Steven Pressfield now this one is very
short but nonetheless impactful and it
was extremely popular in the
entrepreneurial community now
pressfield's shows exactly why we don't
do the things that we know we must do in
order to become better at whatever the
skill is that we're dedicating ourselves
to and it's called resistance now
resistance is the fear that you feel
when you want to go up and start a
conversation with someone in English but
you don't or it's the procrastination
that you feel when you really know that
you should be studying or it's the
excuses that you give that you can't do
it for some reason even though other
people are out there doing it and
resistance shows up all the time in our
lives just to give you an example this
has probably happened to you there's
something that you know that you're
going to do that you want to do it's
something that will help you to advance
your English or another skill that
you're building but then all the sudden
your head you think okay well the dishes
are dirty so I better do the dishes and
then I need to take out the trash and
then by the time you actually have done
all these little chores around the house
or little things that seem important you
don't have time for the thing that is
really important resistance is when we
tell ourselves that we'll start tomorrow
instead of just getting started right
now
resistance as I define it with a capital
R is that negative force that arises
whenever we try to move from a lower
level to a higher level or we're trying
to identify with our nobler nature with
our higher nature you're trying to get
out of your own little petty ego and and
channel the muse or try to get something
wonderful out there so that elicits
resistance it'll assist this equal and
opposite negative force now Pressfield
differs between pros and amateurs
now amateurs let all that fear excuses
and procrastination get in the way of
attaining their higher self now the pros
they also feel the fear they also hear
the voice in their head tying them
they have to do something else before
they get started but they recognize that
as part of the process and they show up
and do it anyway now in the war of art
Pressfield gives us the information that
we need to stop being an amateur and to
become a pro now are you a pro or an
amateur with your English an amateur
we'll watch this video and then not
really do anything different a pro will
watch this video and get inspired and go
out and get one of these books or sign
up for audible and download the
audiobook and start learning with it or
just watch one of the TED Talks that I
mentioned in this video or do something
else that's going to actually advance
their skills in English so my challenge
to you is to pick one of these books and
download it or order it and start
reading or you could get the audiobook
and start listening or do both together
now you could read these in your native
language and they will really have an
immense impact on you that could be a
great place to start but you could kill
two birds with one stone learn a ton of
vocabulary about reading in in English
so let me know down in the comments
below which of these books are you going
to read or if I missed any great ones
then be sure to share them with me and
other learners down in the comments
below and if you enjoyed this lesson and
want more lessons to help you with your
reading then let me know by giving it a
like below or let me know down in the
comments what you would like to see and
if you'd like to get some help learning
the vocabulary that natives really use
in our everyday lives
then our fluent with friends course can
help you a ton so I highly recommend
that you check that out by signing up
for our free three-part master class now
it's time to go beyond the classroom and
live your English ah yeah